tests/testutils/README.md, before:

# Tests Utilities

The `testutils` package provides an internal test format for Collector data, and helpers to help assert its integrity
from arbitrary components.

### Resource Metrics

`ResourceMetrics` are at the core of the internal metric data format for these tests and are intended to be defined
in yaml files or by converting from obtained `pdata.Metrics` items.  They provide a strict `Equals()` helper method as
well as `RelaxedEquals()` to help in verifying desired field and values, ignoring those not specified.

```yaml
resource_metrics:
  - attributes:
      a_resource_attribute: a_value
      another_resource_attribute: another_value
    instrumentation_library_metrics:
      - instrumentation_library:
          name: a library
          version: some version
      - metrics:
          - name: my.int.gauge
            type: IntGauge
            description: my.int.gauge description
            unit: ms
            labels:
              my_label: my_label_value
              my_other_label: my_other_label_value
            value: 123
          - name: my.double.sum
            type: DoubleNonmonotonicDeltaSum
            labels: {} # enforced empty label map in RelaxedEquals() (only point with no labels matches)
            value: -123.456
  - instrumentation_library_metrics:
      - instrumentation_library:
          name: an instrumentation library from a different resource without attributes
        metrics:
          - name: my.double.gauge
            type: DoubleGauge
            # missing labels field, so values are not compared in RelaxedEquals() (any label values are accepted)
            value: 456.789
          - name: my.double.gauge
            type: DoubleGauge
            labels:
              another: label
            value: 567.890
      - instrumentation_library:
          name: another instrumentation library
          version: this_library_version
        metrics:
          - name: another_int_gauge
            type: IntGauge
            value: 456
```

Using `LoadResourceMetrics("my_yaml.path")` you can create an equivalent `ResourceMetrics` instance to what your yaml file specifies.
Using `PDataToResourceMetrics(myReceivedPDataMetrics)` you can use the assertion helpers to determine if your expected
`ResourceMetrics` are the same as those received in your test case. `FlattenResourceMetrics()` is a good way to "normalize"
metrics received over time to ensure that only unique datapoints are represented, and that all unique Resources and
Instrumentation Libraries have a single item.

### Test Containers

The Testcontainers project is a popular testing resource for easy container creation and usage for a number of languages
including [Go](https://github.com/testcontainers/testcontainers-go).  The `testutils` package provides a helpful [container
builder and wrapper library](./container.go) to avoid needing direct Docker api usage:

```go
import "github.com/signafx/splunk-otel-collector/tests/testutils"

myContainerFromImageName := testutils.NewContainer().WithImage(
	"my-docker-image:123.4-alpine",
).WithEnvVar("MY_ENV_VAR", "ENV_VAR_VALUE",
).WithExposedPorts("12345:12345").WillWaitForPorts("12345",
).WillWaitForLogs(
    "My container is running and ready for interaction"
).Build()

// After building, `myContainerFromImageName` implements the testscontainer.Container interface
err := myContainerFromImageName.Start(context.Background())

myContainerFromBuildContext := testutils.NewContainer().WithContext(
    "./directory_with_dockerfile_and_resources",
).WithEnv(map[string]string{
    "MY_ENV_VAR_1": "value1",
    "MY_ENV_VAR_2": "value2",
    "MY_ENV_VAR_3": "value3",
}).WithExposedPorts("23456:23456", "34567:34567",
).WillWaitForPorts("23456", "34567",
).WillWaitForLogs(
    "My container is running.", "My container is ready for interaction"
).Build()

err = myContainerFromBuildContext.Start(context.Background())
```

### OTLP Metrics Receiver Sink

The `OTLPMetricsReceiverSink` is a helper type that will easily stand up an inmemory OTLP Receiver with
`consumertest.MetricsSink` functionality.  It will listen to the configured gRPC endpoint that running Collector
processes can be configured to reach and provides an `AssertAllMetricsReceived()` test method to confirm that expected
`ResourceMetrics` are received within the specified window.

```go
import "github.com/signafx/splunk-otel-collector/tests/testutils"

otlp, err := testutils.NewOTLPMetricsReceiverSink().WithEndpoint("localhost:23456").Build()
require.NoError(t, err)

defer func() {
    require.Nil(t, otlp.Shutdown())
}()

require.NoError(t, otlp.Start())

require.NoError(t, otlp.AssertAllMetricsReceived(t, expectedResourceMetrics, 10*time.Second))
```

### Collector Process

The `CollectorProcess` is a helper type that will run the desired Collector executable as a subprocess using whatever 
config you provide.  If an executable path isn't specified via builder method, the first `bin/otelcol` match walking up
your current directory tree will be used, which can be helpful to ease test development and execution.

You can also specify the desired command line arguments using `builder.WithArgs()` if not simply running with the
specified config.

```go
import "github.com/signafx/splunk-otel-collector/tests/testutils"

collector, err := testutils.NewCollectorProcess().WithPath("my_otel_collector_path",
).WithConfigPath("my_config_path").WithLogger(logger).WithLogLevel("debug").Build()

err = collector.Start()
require.NoError(t, err)
defer func() { require.NoError(t, collector.Shutdown()) }()

// Also able to specify other arguments for feature, performance, and soak testing.
// path will be first `bin/otelcol` match in a parent directory
collector, err = testutils.NewCollectorProcess().WithArgs("--tested-feature", "--etc").Build()
```

### Collector Container

The `CollectorContainer` is an equivalent helper type to the `CollectorProcess` but will run a container in host network
mode for an arbitrary Collector image and tag using the config you provide.  If an image is not specified it will use a default
of `"quay.io/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector-dev:latest"`.

```go
import "github.com/signafx/splunk-otel-collector/tests/testutils"

collector, err := testutils.NewCollectorContainer().WithImage("quay.io/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector:latest",
).WithConfigPath("my_config_path").Build()

err = collector.Start()
require.NoError(t, err)
defer func() { require.NoError(t, collector.Shutdown()) }()
```

### Testcase

All the above test utilities can be easily configured by the `Testcase` helper to avoid unnecessary boilerplate in
resource creation and cleanup.  The associated OTLPMetricsReceiverSink for each `Testcase` will have an OS-provided
endpoint that can be rendered via the `"${OTLP_ENDPOINT}"` environment variable in your tested config. `testutils`
provides a general `AssertAllMetricsReceived()` function that utilizes this type to stand up all the necessary resources
associated with a test and assert that all expected metrics are received:

If the `SPLUNK_OTEL_COLLECTOR_IMAGE` environment variable is set and not empty its value will be used to start a
`CollectorContainer` instead of a subprocess.

```go
import "github.com/signafx/splunk-otel-collector/tests/testutils"

func MyTest(t *testing.T) {
    containers := []testutils.Container{
        testutils.NewContainer().WithImage("my_docker_image"),
        testutils.NewContainer().WithImage("my_other_docker_image"),
    }

    // will implicitly create a Testcase with OTLPMetricsReceiverSink listening at $OTLP_ENDPOINT,
    // ./testdata/resource_metrics/my_resource_metrics.yaml ResourceMetrics instance, CollectorProcess with
    // ./testdata/my_collector_config.yaml config, and build and start all specified containers before calling
    // otlpMetricsReceiverSink.AssertAllMetricsReceived() with a 30s wait duration.
    testutils.AssertAllMetricsReceived(t, "my_resource_metrics.yaml", "my_collector_config.yaml", containers)
}
```

Commit message:

migrate testutils.ResourceMetrics to telemetry.ResourceMetrics (#2069)
* migrate updated testutils.ResourceMetrics to telelmetry.ResourceMetrics

* adopt Makefile.Common in tests and address fmt/gocritic requirements

* support raw attributes

tests/testutils/README.md, after:

# Tests Utilities

The `testutils` package provides an internal test format for Collector data, and helpers to help assert its integrity
from arbitrary components.

### Resource Metrics

`ResourceMetrics` are at the core of the internal metric data format for these tests and are intended to be defined
in yaml files or by converting from obtained `pdata.Metrics` items.  They provide a strict `Equals()` helper method as
well as `RelaxedEquals()` to help in verifying desired field and values, ignoring those not specified.

```yaml
resource_metrics:
  - attributes:
      a_resource_attribute: a_value
      another_resource_attribute: another_value
    scope_metrics:
      - instrumentation_scope:
          name: a library
          version: some version
      - metrics:
          - name: my.int.gauge
            type: IntGauge
            description: my.int.gauge description
            unit: ms
            attributes:
              my_attribute: my_attribute_value
              my_other_attribute: my_other_attribute_value
            value: 123
          - name: my.double.sum
            type: DoubleNonmonotonicDeltaSum
            attributes: {} # enforced empty attribute map in RelaxedEquals() (only point with no attributes matches)
            value: -123.456
  - scope_metrics:
      - instrumentation_scope:
          name: an instrumentation library from a different resource without attributes
        metrics:
          - name: my.double.gauge
            type: DoubleGauge
            # missing attributes field, so values are not compared in RelaxedEquals() (any attribute values are accepted)
            value: 456.789
          - name: my.double.gauge
            type: DoubleGauge
            attributes:
              another: attribute
            value: 567.890
      - instrumentation_scope:
          name: another instrumentation library
          version: this_library_version
        metrics:
          - name: another_int_gauge
            type: IntGauge
            value: 456
```

Using `telemetry.LoadResourceMetrics("my_yaml.path")` you can create an equivalent `ResourceMetrics` instance to what your yaml file specifies.
Using `telemetry.PDataToResourceMetrics(myReceivedPDataMetrics)` you can use the assertion helpers to determine if your expected
`ResourceMetrics` are the same as those received in your test case. `telemetry.FlattenResourceMetrics()` is a good way to "normalize"
metrics received over time to ensure that only unique datapoints are represented, and that all unique Resources and
Instrumentation Libraries have a single item.

### Test Containers

The Testcontainers project is a popular testing resource for easy container creation and usage for a number of languages
including [Go](https://github.com/testcontainers/testcontainers-go).  The `testutils` package provides a helpful [container
builder and wrapper library](./container.go) to avoid needing direct Docker api usage:

```go
import "github.com/signafx/splunk-otel-collector/tests/testutils"

myContainerFromImageName := testutils.NewContainer().WithImage(
	"my-docker-image:123.4-alpine",
).WithEnvVar("MY_ENV_VAR", "ENV_VAR_VALUE",
).WithExposedPorts("12345:12345").WillWaitForPorts("12345",
).WillWaitForLogs(
    "My container is running and ready for interaction"
).Build()

// After building, `myContainerFromImageName` implements the testscontainer.Container interface
err := myContainerFromImageName.Start(context.Background())

myContainerFromBuildContext := testutils.NewContainer().WithContext(
    "./directory_with_dockerfile_and_resources",
).WithEnv(map[string]string{
    "MY_ENV_VAR_1": "value1",
    "MY_ENV_VAR_2": "value2",
    "MY_ENV_VAR_3": "value3",
}).WithExposedPorts("23456:23456", "34567:34567",
).WillWaitForPorts("23456", "34567",
).WillWaitForLogs(
    "My container is running.", "My container is ready for interaction"
).Build()

err = myContainerFromBuildContext.Start(context.Background())
```

### OTLP Metrics Receiver Sink

The `OTLPMetricsReceiverSink` is a helper type that will easily stand up an inmemory OTLP Receiver with
`consumertest.MetricsSink` functionality.  It will listen to the configured gRPC endpoint that running Collector
processes can be configured to reach and provides an `AssertAllMetricsReceived()` test method to confirm that expected
`ResourceMetrics` are received within the specified window.

```go
import "github.com/signafx/splunk-otel-collector/tests/testutils"

otlp, err := testutils.NewOTLPMetricsReceiverSink().WithEndpoint("localhost:23456").Build()
require.NoError(t, err)

defer func() {
    require.Nil(t, otlp.Shutdown())
}()

require.NoError(t, otlp.Start())

require.NoError(t, otlp.AssertAllMetricsReceived(t, expectedResourceMetrics, 10*time.Second))
```

### Collector Process

The `CollectorProcess` is a helper type that will run the desired Collector executable as a subprocess using whatever 
config you provide.  If an executable path isn't specified via builder method, the first `bin/otelcol` match walking up
your current directory tree will be used, which can be helpful to ease test development and execution.

You can also specify the desired command line arguments using `builder.WithArgs()` if not simply running with the
specified config.

```go
import "github.com/signafx/splunk-otel-collector/tests/testutils"

collector, err := testutils.NewCollectorProcess().WithPath("my_otel_collector_path",
).WithConfigPath("my_config_path").WithLogger(logger).WithLogLevel("debug").Build()

err = collector.Start()
require.NoError(t, err)
defer func() { require.NoError(t, collector.Shutdown()) }()

// Also able to specify other arguments for feature, performance, and soak testing.
// path will be first `bin/otelcol` match in a parent directory
collector, err = testutils.NewCollectorProcess().WithArgs("--tested-feature", "--etc").Build()
```

### Collector Container

The `CollectorContainer` is an equivalent helper type to the `CollectorProcess` but will run a container in host network
mode for an arbitrary Collector image and tag using the config you provide.  If an image is not specified it will use a default
of `"quay.io/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector-dev:latest"`.

```go
import "github.com/signafx/splunk-otel-collector/tests/testutils"

collector, err := testutils.NewCollectorContainer().WithImage("quay.io/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector:latest",
).WithConfigPath("my_config_path").Build()

err = collector.Start()
require.NoError(t, err)
defer func() { require.NoError(t, collector.Shutdown()) }()
```

### Testcase

All the above test utilities can be easily configured by the `Testcase` helper to avoid unnecessary boilerplate in
resource creation and cleanup.  The associated OTLPMetricsReceiverSink for each `Testcase` will have an OS-provided
endpoint that can be rendered via the `"${OTLP_ENDPOINT}"` environment variable in your tested config. `testutils`
provides a general `AssertAllMetricsReceived()` function that utilizes this type to stand up all the necessary resources
associated with a test and assert that all expected metrics are received:

If the `SPLUNK_OTEL_COLLECTOR_IMAGE` environment variable is set and not empty its value will be used to start a
`CollectorContainer` instead of a subprocess.

```go
import "github.com/signafx/splunk-otel-collector/tests/testutils"

func MyTest(t *testing.T) {
    containers := []testutils.Container{
        testutils.NewContainer().WithImage("my_docker_image"),
        testutils.NewContainer().WithImage("my_other_docker_image"),
    }

    // will implicitly create a Testcase with OTLPMetricsReceiverSink listening at $OTLP_ENDPOINT,
    // ./testdata/resource_metrics/my_resource_metrics.yaml ResourceMetrics instance, CollectorProcess with
    // ./testdata/my_collector_config.yaml config, and build and start all specified containers before calling
    // otlpMetricsReceiverSink.AssertAllMetricsReceived() with a 30s wait duration.
    testutils.AssertAllMetricsReceived(t, "my_resource_metrics.yaml", "my_collector_config.yaml", containers)
}
```
