docs/getting-started/linux-installer.md, before:

# Linux Installer Script

For non-containerized Linux environments, an installer script is available. The
script deploys and configures:

- Splunk OpenTelemetry Connector for Linux
- [SignalFx Smart Agent and collectd bundle](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/releases) (**x86_64/amd64 platforms only**)
- [Fluentd (via the TD Agent)](https://www.fluentd.org/)

> IMPORTANT: systemd is required to use this script.

Currently, the following Linux distributions and versions are supported:

- Amazon Linux: 2
- CentOS / Red Hat / Oracle: 7, 8
- Debian: 8, 9, 10
- SUSE: 12, 15 (**Note:** Only for collector versions v0.34.0 or higher.  Log collection with Fluentd not currently supported.)
- Ubuntu: 16.04, 18.04, 20.04

## Getting Started

Run the below command on your host. Replace these variables:

- `SPLUNK_REALM`: Which realm to send the data to (for example: `us0`)
- `SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN`: Access token to authenticate requests

```sh
curl -sSL https://dl.signalfx.com/splunk-otel-collector.sh > /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh && \
sudo sh /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh --realm SPLUNK_REALM -- SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN
```

You can view the [source](../../internal/buildscripts/packaging/installer/install.sh)
for more details and available options.

## Advanced Configuration

### Additional Script Options

Additional configuration options supported by the script can be found by
running the script with the `-h` flag.

```sh
sh /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh -h
```

One additional parameter that may need to changed is `--memory` in order to
configure the memory allocation.

> By default, this variable is set to `512`. If you have allocated more memory
> to the Collector then you must increase this setting.

```sh
curl -sSL https://dl.signalfx.com/splunk-otel-collector.sh > /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh && \
sudo sh /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh --realm SPLUNK_REALM --memory SPLUNK_MEMORY_TOTAL_MIB \
    -- SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN
```

### Collector Configuration

The Collector comes with a default configuration which can be found at
`/etc/otel/collector/agent_config.yaml`. This configuration can be
modified as needed. Possible configuration options can be found in the
`receivers`, `processors`, `exporters`, and `extensions` folders of either:

- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector)
- [OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib)

After modification, the Collector service needs to be restarted:

```sh
sudo systemctl restart splunk-otel-collector
```

### Fluentd Configuration

By default, the fluentd service will be installed and configured to forward log
events with the `@SPLUNK` label to the collector (see below for how to add
custom fluentd log sources), and the collector will send these events to the
HEC ingest endpoint determined by the `--realm SPLUNK_REALM` option, e.g.
`https://ingest.SPLUNK_REALM.signalfx.com/v1/log`.

The following fluentd plugins will also be installed:

- [capng_c](https://github.com/fluent-plugins-nursery/capng_c) for enabling [Linux capabilities](https://docs.fluentd.org/deployment/linux-capability)
- [fluent-plugin-systemd](https://github.com/fluent-plugin-systemd/fluent-plugin-systemd) for systemd journal log collection

Additionally, the following dependencies will be installed as prerequisites for
the fluentd plugins:

- Debian-based systems:
  - `build-essential`
  - `libcap-ng0`
  - `libcap-ng-dev`
  - `pkg-config`

- RPM-based systems:
  - `Development Tools`
  - `libcap-ng`
  - `libcap-ng-devel`
  - `pkgconfig`

> If log collection is not required, run the installer script with the
> `--without-fluentd` option to skip installation of fluentd and the
> plugins/dependencies listed above.

To configure the collector to send log events to a custom HEC endpoint URL, you
can specify the following parameters for the installer script:

- `--hec-url URL`
- `--hec-token TOKEN`

The main fluentd configuration file will be installed to
`/etc/otel/collector/fluentd/fluent.conf`. Custom fluentd source config files
can be added to the `/etc/otel/collector/fluentd/conf.d` directory after 
installation. Please note:

- All files in this directory ending `.conf` extension will automatically be
 included by Fluentd.
- The "td-agent" user must have permissions to access the config files and the
  paths defined within.
- By default, Fluentd will be configured to collect systemd journal log events
from `/var/log/journal`.

After any configuration modification, the td-agent service needs to be restarted:

```sh
sudo systemctl restart td-agent
```

**Note:** If the `td-agent` package is upgraded after initial installation, [Linux
capabilities](https://docs.fluentd.org/deployment/linux-capability) may need
to be set for the new version by performing the following steps (only
applicable for `td-agent` versions 4.1 or newer):

1. Check for the enabled capabilities:
  ```sh
  sudo /opt/td-agent/bin/fluent-cap-ctl --get -f /opt/td-agent/bin/ruby
  ```
  The output should be:
  ```sh
  Capabilities in '/opt/td-agent/bin/ruby',
  Effective:   dac_override, dac_read_search
  Inheritable: dac_override, dac_read_search
  Permitted:   dac_override, dac_read_search
  ```

2. If the output from the previous command does not include `dac_override` and
   `dac_read_search` as shown above, run the following commands:
  ```sh
  sudo td-agent-gem install capng_c
  sudo /opt/td-agent/bin/fluent-cap-ctl --add "dac_override,dac_read_search" -f /opt/td-agent/bin/ruby
  sudo systemctl daemon-reload
  sudo systemctl restart td-agent
  ```

### Uninstall

If you wish to uninstall the collector and fluentd you can run:

```sh
sudo sh /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh --uninstall
```

> Note that configuration files may be left on the filesystem.  On RPM-based
> systems, modified configuration files will be renamed with the `.rpmsave`
> extension and can be manually deleted if they are no longer needed.  On
> Debian-based systems, modified configuration files will persist and should
> be manually deleted before re-running the installer script if you do not
> intend on re-using these configuration files.

Commit message:

Edit contributing and add callouts to docs (#766)
* Change to CONTRIBUTING file (see GDI Specs PR129)

* Add README to docs folder

* Add callouts

* Fix links to CONTRIBUTING

* Filename fix

* Update faq.md

docs/getting-started/linux-installer.md, after:

> The official Splunk documentation for this page is [Install on Linux](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/opentelemetry/install-linux.html). For instructions on how to contribute to the docs, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING#documentation.md).

# Linux Installer Script

For non-containerized Linux environments, an installer script is available. The
script deploys and configures:

- Splunk OpenTelemetry Connector for Linux
- [SignalFx Smart Agent and collectd bundle](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/releases) (**x86_64/amd64 platforms only**)
- [Fluentd (via the TD Agent)](https://www.fluentd.org/)

> IMPORTANT: systemd is required to use this script.

Currently, the following Linux distributions and versions are supported:

- Amazon Linux: 2
- CentOS / Red Hat / Oracle: 7, 8
- Debian: 8, 9, 10
- SUSE: 12, 15 (**Note:** Only for collector versions v0.34.0 or higher.  Log collection with Fluentd not currently supported.)
- Ubuntu: 16.04, 18.04, 20.04

## Getting Started

Run the below command on your host. Replace these variables:

- `SPLUNK_REALM`: Which realm to send the data to (for example: `us0`)
- `SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN`: Access token to authenticate requests

```sh
curl -sSL https://dl.signalfx.com/splunk-otel-collector.sh > /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh && \
sudo sh /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh --realm SPLUNK_REALM -- SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN
```

You can view the [source](../../internal/buildscripts/packaging/installer/install.sh)
for more details and available options.

## Advanced Configuration

### Additional Script Options

Additional configuration options supported by the script can be found by
running the script with the `-h` flag.

```sh
sh /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh -h
```

One additional parameter that may need to changed is `--memory` in order to
configure the memory allocation.

> By default, this variable is set to `512`. If you have allocated more memory
> to the Collector then you must increase this setting.

```sh
curl -sSL https://dl.signalfx.com/splunk-otel-collector.sh > /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh && \
sudo sh /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh --realm SPLUNK_REALM --memory SPLUNK_MEMORY_TOTAL_MIB \
    -- SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN
```

### Collector Configuration

The Collector comes with a default configuration which can be found at
`/etc/otel/collector/agent_config.yaml`. This configuration can be
modified as needed. Possible configuration options can be found in the
`receivers`, `processors`, `exporters`, and `extensions` folders of either:

- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector)
- [OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib)

After modification, the Collector service needs to be restarted:

```sh
sudo systemctl restart splunk-otel-collector
```

### Fluentd Configuration

By default, the fluentd service will be installed and configured to forward log
events with the `@SPLUNK` label to the collector (see below for how to add
custom fluentd log sources), and the collector will send these events to the
HEC ingest endpoint determined by the `--realm SPLUNK_REALM` option, e.g.
`https://ingest.SPLUNK_REALM.signalfx.com/v1/log`.

The following fluentd plugins will also be installed:

- [capng_c](https://github.com/fluent-plugins-nursery/capng_c) for enabling [Linux capabilities](https://docs.fluentd.org/deployment/linux-capability)
- [fluent-plugin-systemd](https://github.com/fluent-plugin-systemd/fluent-plugin-systemd) for systemd journal log collection

Additionally, the following dependencies will be installed as prerequisites for
the fluentd plugins:

- Debian-based systems:
  - `build-essential`
  - `libcap-ng0`
  - `libcap-ng-dev`
  - `pkg-config`

- RPM-based systems:
  - `Development Tools`
  - `libcap-ng`
  - `libcap-ng-devel`
  - `pkgconfig`

> If log collection is not required, run the installer script with the
> `--without-fluentd` option to skip installation of fluentd and the
> plugins/dependencies listed above.

To configure the collector to send log events to a custom HEC endpoint URL, you
can specify the following parameters for the installer script:

- `--hec-url URL`
- `--hec-token TOKEN`

The main fluentd configuration file will be installed to
`/etc/otel/collector/fluentd/fluent.conf`. Custom fluentd source config files
can be added to the `/etc/otel/collector/fluentd/conf.d` directory after 
installation. Please note:

- All files in this directory ending `.conf` extension will automatically be
 included by Fluentd.
- The "td-agent" user must have permissions to access the config files and the
  paths defined within.
- By default, Fluentd will be configured to collect systemd journal log events
from `/var/log/journal`.

After any configuration modification, the td-agent service needs to be restarted:

```sh
sudo systemctl restart td-agent
```

**Note:** If the `td-agent` package is upgraded after initial installation, [Linux
capabilities](https://docs.fluentd.org/deployment/linux-capability) may need
to be set for the new version by performing the following steps (only
applicable for `td-agent` versions 4.1 or newer):

1. Check for the enabled capabilities:
  ```sh
  sudo /opt/td-agent/bin/fluent-cap-ctl --get -f /opt/td-agent/bin/ruby
  ```
  The output should be:
  ```sh
  Capabilities in '/opt/td-agent/bin/ruby',
  Effective:   dac_override, dac_read_search
  Inheritable: dac_override, dac_read_search
  Permitted:   dac_override, dac_read_search
  ```

2. If the output from the previous command does not include `dac_override` and
   `dac_read_search` as shown above, run the following commands:
  ```sh
  sudo td-agent-gem install capng_c
  sudo /opt/td-agent/bin/fluent-cap-ctl --add "dac_override,dac_read_search" -f /opt/td-agent/bin/ruby
  sudo systemctl daemon-reload
  sudo systemctl restart td-agent
  ```

### Uninstall

If you wish to uninstall the collector and fluentd you can run:

```sh
sudo sh /tmp/splunk-otel-collector.sh --uninstall
```

> Note that configuration files may be left on the filesystem.  On RPM-based
> systems, modified configuration files will be renamed with the `.rpmsave`
> extension and can be manually deleted if they are no longer needed.  On
> Debian-based systems, modified configuration files will persist and should
> be manually deleted before re-running the installer script if you do not
> intend on re-using these configuration files.
