deployments/cloudfoundry/buildpack/README.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry Collector Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) Buildpack

A [Cloud Foundry buildpack](https://docs.pivotal.io/application-service/2-11/buildpacks/) to install
the OpenTelemetry Collector for use with PCF apps.

The buildpack's default functionality, as described in this document, is to deploy the OpenTelemetry Collector
as a sidecar for the given app that's being deployed. The Collector is able to observe the app as a 
[nozzle](https://docs.pivotal.io/tiledev/2-10/nozzle.html#nozzle) to
the [Loggregator Firehose](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/loggregator/architecture.html).
The Loggregator Firehose is one of the architectures Cloud Foundry
uses to emit logs and metrics. This means that the OpenTelemetry Collector will be observing all
apps and deployments that emit metrics and logs to the Loggregator Firehose as long as it's running.

## Installation
- Clone this repository.
- Change to this directory.
- Run the following command:
```sh
# Add buildpack for OpenTelemetry Collector
$ cf create-buildpack otel_collector_buildpack . 99 --enable
```

Note: `wget` is used to download the OpenTelemetry Collector.

### Using PCF Buildpack With an Application
This section covers basic cf CLI (Cloud Foundry Command Line Interface) commands to use the buildpack. 
```sh
# Basic setup, see the configuration section for more envvars that can be set
$ cf set-env <app-name> OTEL_CONFIG <config_file_name>
$ cf set-env <app-name> OTELCOL <desired_collector_executable_name>

$ cd <my-application-directory>/

# How to run an application without a manifest.yml file:
# Note: This will provide the Collector for the app, but the Collector will not be running.
$ cf push <app-name> -b otel_collector_buildpack -b <main_buildpack>

# How to run an application with a manifest.yml file:
# Option 1)
$ cf push
# Option 2)
$ cf push <app-name> -b otel_collector_buildpack -b <main_buildpack> -f manifest.yml
```

Note: This buildpack requires another buildpack to be supplied after it, it is not allowed to
be the last one for an app. Also, the manifest.yml file will need to provide the
command to run the OpenTelemetry Collector as a sidecar for the application.

## Configuration

The following only applies if you are using the `otelconfig.yaml` config
provided by the buildpack.  If you provide a custom configuration file for the OpenTelemetry Collector 
in your application (and refer to it in the sidecar configuration), these might not
work unless you have preserved the references to the environment variables in the config file.
For proper functionality, the `OTEL_CONFIG` environment variable must point to
the configuration file, whether using the default or a customer version.

Set the following environment variables with `cf set-env` as applicable to configure this buildpack, or
include them in the `manifest.yml` file, as shown in the [included example](#sidecar-configuration).

Required:
- `RLP_GATEWAY_ENDPOINT` - The URL of the RLP gateway that acts as the proxy for the firehose,
    e.g. `https://log-stream.sys.<TAS environment name>.cf-app.com`
- `UAA_ENDPOINT` - The URL of UAA provider,
    e.g. `https://uaa.sys.<TAS environment name>.cf-app.com`
- `UAA_USERNAME` - Name of the UAA user.
- `UAA_PASSWORD` - Password for the UAA user.
- `SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN` - Your Splunk organization access token.
- The Splunk Observability Suite requires an endpoint, so one of the two options below must be specified:
    1) - `SPLUNK_INGEST_URL` - The ingest base URL for Splunk. This option takes precedence over SPLUNK_REALM.
       - `SPLUNK_API_URL` - The API server base URL for Splunk. This option takes precedence over SPLUNK_REALM.
    2) - `SPLUNK_REALM` - The Splunk realm in which your organization resides. Used to derive SPLUNK_INGEST_URL
       and SPLUNK_API_URL.

Optional:
- `OS` - Operating system that Cloud Foundry is running. Must match format of Otel Collector executable name.
    Default: `linux_amd64`
- `OTEL_CONFIG` - Local name of OpenTelemetry config file. Default: `otelconfig.yaml`
- `OTEL_VERSION` - Executable version of OpenTelemetry Collector (contrib) to use. The buildpack depends on features present in version
    v0.48.0+. Default: `latest`. Example valid value: `v0.48.0`.
    Note that if left the default value, the latest version will be found and later variable references will be
    to a valid version number, not simply the word "latest".
- `OTEL_BINARY` - OpenTelemetry Collector executable file name. Default: `otelcontribcol_$OS-v$OTEL_VERSION`
- `OTEL_BINARY_DOWNLOAD_URL` - URL to download the OpenTelemetry Collector from. This takes precedence over other
    version variables. Only the Splunk distribution is supported.
    Default: `https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/releases/download/${OTEL_VERSION}/otelcol_${OS}`
- `RLP_GATEWAY_SHARD_ID` - Metrics are load balanced between receivers that use the same shard ID.
   Only use if multiple receivers must receive all metrics instead of
   balancing metrics between them. Default: `otelcol`
- `RLP_GATEWAY_TLS_INSECURE` - Whether to skip TLS verify for the RLP gateway endpoint. Default: `false`
- `UAA_TLS_INSECURE` - Whether to skip TLS verify for the UAA endpoint. Default: `false`

## Sidecar Configuration

The recommended method for running the Collector is to run it as a sidecar using
the Cloud Foundry [sidecar
functionality](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/sidecars.html).
Additional information can be found [in the v3 API
docs](http://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/release-candidate/#sidecars).

Here is an example application `manifest.yml` file that would run the Collector as
a sidecar:

```yaml
---
applications:
  - name: test-app
    buildpacks:
      - otel_collector_buildpack
      - go_buildpack
    instances: 1
    memory: 256M
    random-route: true
    env:
      RLP_GATEWAY_ENDPOINT: "https://log-stream.sys.<TAS environment name>.cf-app.com"
      UAA_ENDPOINT: "https://uaa.sys.<TAS environment name>.cf-app.com"
      UAA_USERNAME: "..."
      UAA_PASSWORD: "..."
      SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN: "..."
      SPLUNK_REALM: "..."
    sidecars:
      - name: otel-collector
        process_types:
          - web
        command: "$HOME/../deps/otelcontribcol_${OS:-linux_amd64}-v${OTEL_VERSION:-0.47.0} --config=$HOME/../deps/${OTEL_CONFIG:-otelconfig.yaml}"
        memory: 100MB
```
If using a `manifest.yaml` file, you may push your app simply with the following command:
```sh
# If you are using cf CLI v7
$ cf push

# If you are using cf CLI v6
$ cf v3-push <app-name>
```
This will deploy the app with the proper buildpacks, and the OpenTelemetry Collector running in the sidecar configuration.

## Troubleshooting

* If the app is running but the OpenTelemetry Collector is not, it may be that the sidecar configuration is not
being picked up properly from the manifest file. Try running the following commands:

```sh
# This will apply the manifest file to an existing app
$ cf v3-apply-manifest -f manifest.yml
# This will re-load the app with the sidecar configuration included
$ cf push
```

* Another possibility is the sidecar was not allocated memory. The `memory` option
is required for a sidecar process for it to run. Once memory allocation has been added to the sidecar,
re-run the above command to apply the manifest and push the application again. Example YAML that will
fail:
```yaml
sidecars:
  - name: otel-collector
    process_types:
      - web
    command: "$HOME/../deps/otelcontribcol_${OS:-linux_amd64}-v${OTEL_VERSION:-0.47.0} --config=$HOME/../deps/${OTEL_CONFIG:-otelconfig.yaml}"
```

### Useful CF CLI debugging commands
```sh
$ cf apps # Checks status of app
$ cf logs <app-name> --recent # View the app's logs
$ cf env <app-name> # Show all environment variables for the app.
$ cf events <app-name> # View the app's events
```

Commit message:

Changes requested in PR
- Add CI tests for buildpack. Just runs supply script and checks
if it's successful.
- Add Splunk to all Otel collector references
- Setup patch interpreter for SignalFx Smart Agent, this makes sure
signalfxreceiver will work properly.

deployments/cloudfoundry/buildpack/README.md, after:

# Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) Buildpack

A [Cloud Foundry buildpack](https://docs.pivotal.io/application-service/2-11/buildpacks/) to install
the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector for use with PCF apps.

The buildpack's default functionality, as described in this document, is to deploy the OpenTelemetry Collector
as a sidecar for the given app that's being deployed. The Collector is able to observe the app as a 
[nozzle](https://docs.pivotal.io/tiledev/2-10/nozzle.html#nozzle) to
the [Loggregator Firehose](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/loggregator/architecture.html).
The Loggregator Firehose is one of the architectures Cloud Foundry
uses to emit logs and metrics. This means that the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector will be observing all
apps and deployments that emit metrics and logs to the Loggregator Firehose as long as it's running.

## Installation
- Clone this repository.
- Change to this directory.
- Run the following command:
```sh
# Add buildpack for Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector
$ cf create-buildpack otel_collector_buildpack . 99 --enable
```

Note: `wget` is used to download the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector.

### Using PCF Buildpack With an Application
This section covers basic cf CLI (Cloud Foundry Command Line Interface) commands to use the buildpack. 
```sh
# Basic setup, see the configuration section for more envvars that can be set
$ cf set-env <app-name> OTEL_CONFIG <config_file_name>
$ cf set-env <app-name> OTELCOL <desired_collector_executable_name>

$ cd <my-application-directory>/

# How to run an application without a manifest.yml file:
# Note: This will provide the Collector for the app, but the Collector will not be running.
$ cf push <app-name> -b otel_collector_buildpack -b <main_buildpack>

# How to run an application with a manifest.yml file:
# Option 1)
$ cf push
# Option 2)
$ cf push <app-name> -b otel_collector_buildpack -b <main_buildpack> -f manifest.yml
```

Note: This buildpack requires another buildpack to be supplied after it, it is not allowed to
be the last one for an app. Also, the manifest.yml file will need to provide the
command to run the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector as a sidecar for the application.

## Configuration

The following only applies if you are using the `otelconfig.yaml` config
provided by the buildpack.  If you provide a custom configuration file for the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector
in your application (and refer to it in the sidecar configuration), these might not
work unless you have preserved the references to the environment variables in the config file.
For proper functionality, the `OTEL_CONFIG` environment variable must point to
the configuration file, whether using the default or a customer version.

Set the following environment variables with `cf set-env` as applicable to configure this buildpack, or
include them in the `manifest.yml` file, as shown in the [included example](#sidecar-configuration).

Required:
- `RLP_GATEWAY_ENDPOINT` - The URL of the RLP gateway that acts as the proxy for the firehose,
    e.g. `https://log-stream.sys.<TAS environment name>.cf-app.com`
- `UAA_ENDPOINT` - The URL of UAA provider,
    e.g. `https://uaa.sys.<TAS environment name>.cf-app.com`
- `UAA_USERNAME` - Name of the UAA user.
- `UAA_PASSWORD` - Password for the UAA user.
- `SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN` - Your Splunk organization access token.
- The Splunk Observability Suite requires an endpoint, so one of the two options below must be specified:
    1) - `SPLUNK_INGEST_URL` - The ingest base URL for Splunk. This option takes precedence over SPLUNK_REALM.
       - `SPLUNK_API_URL` - The API server base URL for Splunk. This option takes precedence over SPLUNK_REALM.
    2) - `SPLUNK_REALM` - The Splunk realm in which your organization resides. Used to derive SPLUNK_INGEST_URL
       and SPLUNK_API_URL.

Optional:
- `OS` - Operating system that Cloud Foundry is running. Must match format of Otel Collector executable name.
    Default: `linux_amd64`
- `OTEL_CONFIG` - Local name of Splunk OpenTelemetry config file. Default: `otelconfig.yaml`
- `OTEL_VERSION` - Executable version of Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector to use. The buildpack depends on features present in version
    v0.48.0+. Default: `latest`. Example valid value: `v0.48.0`.
    Note that if left the default value, the latest version will be found and later variable references will be
    to a valid version number, not simply the word "latest".
- `OTEL_BINARY` - Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector executable file name. Default: `otelcol_$OS-v$OTEL_VERSION`
- `OTEL_BINARY_DOWNLOAD_URL` - URL to download the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector from. This takes precedence over other
    version variables. Only the Splunk distribution is supported.
    Default: `https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/releases/download/${OTEL_VERSION}/otelcol_${OS}`
- `RLP_GATEWAY_SHARD_ID` - Metrics are load balanced between receivers that use the same shard ID.
   Only use if multiple receivers must receive all metrics instead of
   balancing metrics between them. Default: `otelcol`
- `RLP_GATEWAY_TLS_INSECURE` - Whether to skip TLS verify for the RLP gateway endpoint. Default: `false`
- `UAA_TLS_INSECURE` - Whether to skip TLS verify for the UAA endpoint. Default: `false`

## Sidecar Configuration

The recommended method for running the Collector is to run it as a sidecar using
the Cloud Foundry [sidecar
functionality](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/sidecars.html).
Additional information can be found [in the v3 API
docs](http://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/release-candidate/#sidecars).

Here is an example application `manifest.yml` file that would run the Collector as
a sidecar:

```yaml
---
applications:
  - name: test-app
    buildpacks:
      - otel_collector_buildpack
      - go_buildpack
    instances: 1
    memory: 256M
    random-route: true
    env:
      RLP_GATEWAY_ENDPOINT: "https://log-stream.sys.<TAS environment name>.cf-app.com"
      UAA_ENDPOINT: "https://uaa.sys.<TAS environment name>.cf-app.com"
      UAA_USERNAME: "..."
      UAA_PASSWORD: "..."
      SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN: "..."
      SPLUNK_REALM: "..."
    sidecars:
      - name: otel-collector
        process_types:
          - web
        command: "$HOME/.otelcollector/otelcol_${OS:-linux_amd64}-v${OTEL_VERSION:-0.48.0} --config=$HOME/.otelcollector/${OTEL_CONFIG:-otelconfig.yaml}"
        memory: 100MB
```
If using a `manifest.yaml` file, you may push your app simply with the following command:
```sh
# If you are using cf CLI v7
$ cf push

# If you are using cf CLI v6
$ cf v3-push <app-name>
```
This will deploy the app with the proper buildpacks, and the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector running in the
sidecar configuration.

## Troubleshooting

* If the app is running but the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector is not, it may be that the sidecar configuration is not
being picked up properly from the manifest file. Try running the following commands:

```sh
# This will apply the manifest file to an existing app
$ cf v3-apply-manifest -f manifest.yml
# This will re-load the app with the sidecar configuration included
$ cf push
```

* Another possibility is the sidecar was not allocated memory. The `memory` option
is required for a sidecar process for it to run. Once memory allocation has been added to the sidecar,
re-run the above command to apply the manifest and push the application again. Example YAML that will
fail:
```yaml
sidecars:
  - name: otel-collector
    process_types:
      - web
    command: "$HOME/.otelcollector/otelcol_${OS:-linux_amd64}-v${OTEL_VERSION:-0.48.0} --config=$HOME/.otelcollector/${OTEL_CONFIG:-otelconfig.yaml}"
```

### Useful CF CLI debugging commands
```sh
$ cf apps # Checks status of app
$ cf logs <app-name> --recent # View the app's logs
$ cf env <app-name> # Show all environment variables for the app.
$ cf events <app-name> # View the app's events
```
