docs/architecture.md, before:

# Architecture

This distribution can be deployed in the below ways.

## Helm or Installer Script (Recommended)

![splunk-otel-collector-recommended-arch](images/splunk-otel-collector-recommended-arch.png)

If Helm or the installer script is used then the architecture will look similar
to above. The default configuration of the components is as follows:

- [splunk-otel-collector (otelcol)](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/blob/main/cmd/otelcol/config/collector/agent_config.yaml)
- [td-agent (fluentd)](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/internal/buildscripts/packaging/fpm/etc/otel/collector/fluentd)

## Standalone

![splunk-otel-collector-standalone-arch](images/splunk-otel-collector-standalone-arch.png)

If deployed in standalone, only the splunk-otel-collector is deployed and
configured. Note the default configuration for standalone is gateway-mode instead of agent-mode like above:

- [splunk-otel-collector (otelcol)](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/blob/main/cmd/otelcol/config/collector/gateway_config.yaml)

## Advanced

![splunk-otel-collector-recommended-gateway-arch](images/splunk-otel-collector-recommended-gateway-arch.png)

It is possible to manually configure the splunk-otel-collector running as an
agent to send to a splunk-otel-collector gateway instance/cluster. This
requires changing the pipeline exporters in the agent to point to the gateway.

Commit message:

Edit contributing and add callouts to docs (#766)
* Change to CONTRIBUTING file (see GDI Specs PR129)

* Add README to docs folder

* Add callouts

* Fix links to CONTRIBUTING

* Filename fix

* Update faq.md

docs/architecture.md, after:

> The official Splunk documentation for this page is [Use Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/opentelemetry/resources.html). For instructions on how to contribute to the docs, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING#documentation.md).

# Architecture

This distribution can be deployed in the below ways.

## Helm or Installer Script (Recommended)

![splunk-otel-collector-recommended-arch](images/splunk-otel-collector-recommended-arch.png)

If Helm or the installer script is used then the architecture will look similar
to above. The default configuration of the components is as follows:

- [splunk-otel-collector (otelcol)](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/blob/main/cmd/otelcol/config/collector/agent_config.yaml)
- [td-agent (fluentd)](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/internal/buildscripts/packaging/fpm/etc/otel/collector/fluentd)

## Standalone

![splunk-otel-collector-standalone-arch](images/splunk-otel-collector-standalone-arch.png)

If deployed in standalone, only the splunk-otel-collector is deployed and
configured. Note the default configuration for standalone is gateway-mode instead of agent-mode like above:

- [splunk-otel-collector (otelcol)](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/blob/main/cmd/otelcol/config/collector/gateway_config.yaml)

## Advanced

![splunk-otel-collector-recommended-gateway-arch](images/splunk-otel-collector-recommended-gateway-arch.png)

It is possible to manually configure the splunk-otel-collector running as an
agent to send to a splunk-otel-collector gateway instance/cluster. This
requires changing the pipeline exporters in the agent to point to the gateway.
