docs/components.md, before:

# Components

The distribution offers support for the following components.

> Each component has a link to configuration documentation.

## Beta

These components are considered stable. While in beta, breaking changes may be
introduced in a new release. In addition, any of these components may be
removed prior to the 1.0 release.

| Receivers                                                                                                                         | Processors                                                                                                                                  | Exporters                                                                                                            | Extensions                                                                                                                   |
| :--------------:                                                                                                                  | :--------:                                                                                                                                  | :-------:                                                                                                            | :--------:                                                                                                                   |
| [fluentforward](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/fluentforwardreceiver)       | [attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/attributesprocessor)                     | [file](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/fileexporter)            | [ecs_observer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/observer/ecsobserver)   |
| [hostmetrics](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/hostmetricsreceiver)           | [batch](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor/batchprocessor)                                       | [logging](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/loggingexporter)              | [healthcheck](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/healthcheckextension)    |
| [jaeger](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/jaegerreceiver)                     | [groupbyattrs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/groupbyattrsprocessor)                 | [otlp](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlpexporter)                    | [httpforwarder](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/httpforwarder)         |
| [k8s_cluster](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/k8sclusterreceiver)            | [filter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/filterprocessor)                             | [otlphttp](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlphttpexporter)            | [host_observer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/observer/hostobserver) |
| [kubeletstats](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/kubeletstatsreceiver)         | [k8s_tagger](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/k8sprocessor)                            | [sapm](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/sapmexporter)            | [k8s_observer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/observer/k8sobserver)   |
| [otlp](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/receiver/otlpreceiver)                                 | [memorylimiter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/processor/memorylimiterprocessor)                       | [signalfx](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/signalfxexporter)    | [pprof](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/pprofextension)                |
| [receiver_creator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/receivercreator)          | [metricstransform](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/metricstransformprocessor)         | [splunk_hec](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/splunkhecexporter) | [smartagent](../internal/extension/smartagentextension)                                                                      |
| [sapm](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/sapmreceiver)                         | [probabilisticsampler](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/probabilisticsamplerprocessor) |                                                                                                                      | [zpages](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/extension/zpagesextension)                      |
| [signalfx](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/signalfxreceiver)                 | [resource](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/resourceprocessor)                         |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                              |
| [simpleprometheus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/simpleprometheusreceiver) | [resourcedetection](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/resourcedetectionprocessor)       |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                              |
| [smartagent](../internal/receiver/smartagentreceiver)                                                                             | [span](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/spanprocessor)                                 |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                              |
| [splunk_hec](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/splunkhecreceiver)              |                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                              |
| [zipkin](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/zipkinreceiver)                     |                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                              |

## Alpha

These components may or may not be stable. In addition, the may be limited in
their capabilities (for example the Kafka receiver/exporter only offers tracing
support at this time). While in alpha, breaking changes may be introduced in a
new release. In addition, any of these components may be removed prior to the
1.0 release.

| Receivers                                                                                                                 | Processors | Exporters                                                                                           | Extensions |
| :-------:                                                                                                                 | :--------: | :-------:                                                                                           | :--------: |
| [carbon](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/carbonreceiver)             |            | [kafka](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/kafkaexporter) |[file_storage](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/storage/filestorage)        |
| [collectd](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/collectdreceiver)         |            |                                                                                                     |            |
| [filelog](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver)           |            |                                                                                                     |            |
| [kafka](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/kafkareceiver)                       |            |                                                                                                     |            |
| [kafkametrics](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/kafkametricsreceiver) |            |                                                                                                     |            |
| [statsd](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/statsdreceiver)             |            |                                                                                                     |            |

Commit message:

Edit contributing and add callouts to docs (#766)
* Change to CONTRIBUTING file (see GDI Specs PR129)

* Add README to docs folder

* Add callouts

* Fix links to CONTRIBUTING

* Filename fix

* Update faq.md

docs/components.md, after:

> The official Splunk documentation for this page is [Use Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/opentelemetry/resources.html). For instructions on how to contribute to the docs, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING#documentation.md).

# Components

The distribution offers support for the following components.

> Each component has a link to configuration documentation.

## Beta

These components are considered stable. While in beta, breaking changes may be
introduced in a new release. In addition, any of these components may be
removed prior to the 1.0 release.

| Receivers                                                                                                                         | Processors                                                                                                                                  | Exporters                                                                                                            | Extensions                                                                                                                   |
| :--------------:                                                                                                                  | :--------:                                                                                                                                  | :-------:                                                                                                            | :--------:                                                                                                                   |
| [fluentforward](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/fluentforwardreceiver)       | [attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/attributesprocessor)                     | [file](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/fileexporter)            | [ecs_observer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/observer/ecsobserver)   |
| [hostmetrics](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/hostmetricsreceiver)           | [batch](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor/batchprocessor)                                       | [logging](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/loggingexporter)              | [healthcheck](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/healthcheckextension)    |
| [jaeger](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/jaegerreceiver)                     | [groupbyattrs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/groupbyattrsprocessor)                 | [otlp](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlpexporter)                    | [httpforwarder](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/httpforwarder)         |
| [k8s_cluster](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/k8sclusterreceiver)            | [filter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/filterprocessor)                             | [otlphttp](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlphttpexporter)            | [host_observer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/observer/hostobserver) |
| [kubeletstats](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/kubeletstatsreceiver)         | [k8s_tagger](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/k8sprocessor)                            | [sapm](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/sapmexporter)            | [k8s_observer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/observer/k8sobserver)   |
| [otlp](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/receiver/otlpreceiver)                                 | [memorylimiter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/processor/memorylimiterprocessor)                       | [signalfx](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/signalfxexporter)    | [pprof](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/pprofextension)                |
| [receiver_creator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/receivercreator)          | [metricstransform](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/metricstransformprocessor)         | [splunk_hec](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/splunkhecexporter) | [smartagent](../internal/extension/smartagentextension)                                                                      |
| [sapm](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/sapmreceiver)                         | [probabilisticsampler](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/probabilisticsamplerprocessor) |                                                                                                                      | [zpages](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/extension/zpagesextension)                      |
| [signalfx](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/signalfxreceiver)                 | [resource](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/resourceprocessor)                         |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                              |
| [simpleprometheus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/simpleprometheusreceiver) | [resourcedetection](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/resourcedetectionprocessor)       |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                              |
| [smartagent](../internal/receiver/smartagentreceiver)                                                                             | [span](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/spanprocessor)                                 |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                              |
| [splunk_hec](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/splunkhecreceiver)              |                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                              |
| [zipkin](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/zipkinreceiver)                     |                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                              |

## Alpha

These components may or may not be stable. In addition, the may be limited in
their capabilities (for example the Kafka receiver/exporter only offers tracing
support at this time). While in alpha, breaking changes may be introduced in a
new release. In addition, any of these components may be removed prior to the
1.0 release.

| Receivers                                                                                                                 | Processors | Exporters                                                                                           | Extensions |
| :-------:                                                                                                                 | :--------: | :-------:                                                                                           | :--------: |
| [carbon](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/carbonreceiver)             |            | [kafka](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/kafkaexporter) |[file_storage](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/storage/filestorage)        |
| [collectd](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/collectdreceiver)         |            |                                                                                                     |            |
| [filelog](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver)           |            |                                                                                                     |            |
| [kafka](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/kafkareceiver)                       |            |                                                                                                     |            |
| [kafkametrics](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/kafkametricsreceiver) |            |                                                                                                     |            |
| [statsd](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/statsdreceiver)             |            |                                                                                                     |            |
